And the next is a similar concept.
So I'll try and go through that
one a little bit more quickly now
that some of the basics have been covered.
But if we go to the next demo,
which in our little list here would
be this one here, mp3 buffer, [SOUND] and
it plays a very loud chime noise.
And it plays it on mousePressed
as this first demo.
Something that's different with this demo,
though,
is that instead of streaming the audio in,
which is great for long,
sort of tracks background music,
this one is using what's called buffering.
So we download the entire
audio file into memory first.
We decode it, so that when we
actually press the Play button,
is able to play immediately.
It doesn't have to download anything.
There's no data that needs
to be loaded anymore.
And that's really good for
games, that's really good for
sort of interactive experiences
where you don't want any latency,
you don't want any lag between
clicking and hearing the audio.
And it's also good if you just wanna
play a sound over and over again.
You don't have to download
it each time you play it,
you just download it one time and
then you can can play it hundreds of times
without having to download any more data.
And the way that's gonna
look is a bit like this.
It's a little bit more complicated,
it requires some asynchronous code.
Because we're just loading the sound
once and then having to reuse it.
And I'll walk through this one,
I might not code it all just from scratch.
But I'll walk through this, so
on mousePressed we play the sound,
this function here playSound.
And if I go down to
the playSound function, so
in the playSound function,
we first ensure that everything is loaded.
So we first have to say await,
loadSound, and
that function here will do something
that we did in the last demo.
Which is just to create a new
audio context if it doesn't yet
exist just to make sure that we're
only using one audio context.
It's generally a good idea to just
stick with one audio context for
all of your sounds within an application
and just reuse that context.
And then we're gonna actually
create the audio buffer.
So this is the thing that holds the audio
data that we just need to load once and
the way that we load
that is a little bit odd.
We first have to fetch the mp3 or the wav
file just using fetch, just like this.
So I'm fetching the chime,
we get a response and then we turn that
response into an array buffer,
that's what we're doing here.
And then finally we have an array buffer,
which is some binary data of an mp3 file.
But we have to decode that mp3 file or
whatever the format is, OGG or
WebM or something.
We decode that into audio data that
can just be played immediately through
the Web Audio API.
And that's what we're gonna be doing here
with the audioContext.decodeAudioData.
We pass in the array buffer there.
And then we get back an audioBuffer.
And I've declared that as
a global variable here as well.
And so if we go back to our
little playSound function,
we've now loaded up the sound.
And so the next part is to just
make sure that we're resumed.
This is something that you'll
see in some of my demos.
It's not always needed.
It's one of these situations where,
during the course of me developing these
applications over the last few years.
I sometimes run into some issues where,
especially with something like Safari,
sometimes the audio context will
become in a suspended state.
And it's one of these sort
of nebulous things where,
[LAUGH] you just end up writing this
code here to make sure that it's always
resumed, no matter whether
it's suspended or not.
It suspends itself sometimes if,
for example,
the user in some way rejects
a permission for audio.
Or maybe if they haven't yet interacted
with the site or if they've interacted
with the site, and then they somehow
go away from the site and come back.
There's some very strange edge cases.
And so a best practice maybe would just
be to make sure that the audio context is
resumed before you try and play sounds.
It's just something I
started to put into my code.
And then the next thing here we're doing
is we're creating a new buffer source.
So just like before, we had an mp3 source
node, it was a media element source node.
Now we're using a buffer source.
So, when they say source, it's the source
of the audio, whether it's coming
from an audio tag or whether it's
coming from this decoded audioBuffer.
And again, just like as I was
saying with the switchboard,
we have to always make sure that any node
that we create is hooked up to something.
Cuz if we don't connect the source nodes
to the destination or to some other node,
then it's not gonna do anything.
We're not gonna hear anything.
The node will just be there on its own,
not sending the signal to anything else.
And so we connect the source to
the speaker and then we assign the buffer.
So we say, this is the buffer
that we've already loaded.
We're just gonna use that one.
And then we're gonna play the audio.
We use 0 here, which just means
start the sound immediately.
We could use a different variable here,
which would give us maybe a delay.
So it'll start after
some sort of set time.
And so that's that basically.
[SOUND] There we go.
[SOUND]